# Phrases
A work in progress for a passphrase generator, mainly as GTK3 practice.

## Dependencies
* [GTK3](https://github.com/GNOME/gtk)
* [Easyargs](https://github.com/gouwsxander/easy-args)

## Build instructions
An autogenerated template makefile is included in the project root to get you started. Build from the root directory using the `make` command.

## Basic usage
First, you need to either create, or download a pre-existing dicationary. For development I use [words_alpha.txt](https://github.com/dwyl/english-words), but you can use your own. The only requirement is that your dictionary is in plain text and each word is spearated by a newline (windows or unix).
Place your dictionary into the `/res` directory, and name it words_alpha.txt (or use the dict argument for any other filename).

### CLI-usage
1. As simple as executing the CLI tool. Default values for all arguments will be assumed.
2. A list of all the optional args:

|   Flag  |     Default     |                        Description                            |
| ------- |:---------------:|:-------------------------------------------------------------:|
| -s      | RANDOM          | Seed, Any ASCII string                                        |
| -a      | words_alpha.txt | Dictionary, Path to dictionary file                           |
| -d      | NONE            | Delimiter, ASCII character or string to use as delimiter      |
| -n      | 4               | Words, Number of words in phrase                              |
| -u      | 1               | Case, Which letter(s) to capitalize (0:None, 1:First, 2:All)  |

### GUI-usage
1. Ensure both the CLI and GUI executables are in the same directory, or that the CLI is added to your #PATH (TODO).
2. Execute the GUI tool.
3. Tweak any parameters on the right, the passphrase will update automatically. Insert any extra characters to the password field manually if needed.
4. Highlight the passphrase and copy it. Or use the `Copy to clipboard` button

# TODO:

* Something more random than `rand()` would be more secure
* Bit-flag based handling for CLI args for better scalability (check `cli/README.md`)
* Add special character support
    * List of custom characters?
    * As prefix, suffix, or randomly inserted
* Add numeric support
    * Min/Max number size
    * As prefix, suffix, or randomly inserted
* Min/Max word length
* Installer/Package (.deb, .rpm, etc...)
    * Handle all the path stuff in installer
